# COVID19-NLP
In this project, we have attempted to cluster published literature on COVID-19 and reduce the dimensionality of the dataset for visualization purposes. This has allowed for an interactive scatter plot of papers related to COVID-19, in which material of similar theme is grouped together. Grouping the literature in this way allows for professionals to quickly find material related to a central topic. Instead of having to manually search for related work, every publication is connected to a larger topic cluster. The clustering of the data was done through k-means on a pre-processed, vectorized version of the literature’s body text. As k-means simply split the data into clusters, topic modeling through LDA was performed to identify keywords. This gave the topics that were prevalent in each of the clusters. Both the clusters and keywords are found through unsupervised learning models and can be useful in revealing patterns that humans may not have even thought about. In no part of this project did we have to manually organize the papers: the results are due to latent connections in the data.

K-means (represented by colors) and t-SNE (represented by points) were able to independently find clusters, showing that relationships between papers can be identified and measured. Papers written on highly similar topics are typically near each other on the plot and bear the same k-means label. However, due to the complexity of the dataset, k-means and t-SNE will sometimes arrive at different decisions. The topics of much of the given literature are continuous and will not have a concrete decision boundary. This may mean that k-means and t-SNE can find different similarities to group the papers by. In these conditions, our approach performs quite well.

As this is an unsupervised learning problem, the evaluation of our work was not an exact science. First, the plot was examined to assert that clusters were actually being formed. After being convinced of this, we examined the titles/abstracts of some of the papers in different clusters. For the most part, similar research areas were clustered. Our last evaluation method was classification. By training a classification model with the k-means labels and then testing it on a separate subset of the data, we could see that the clustering was not completely arbitrary as the classifier performed well.

Our manual inspection of the documents was quite limited, as neither of the authors are qualified to assess the meaning of the literature. Even so, it was apparent that articles on key topics could be easily found in close proximity to each other. For example, searching for 'mask' can reveal a sub cluster of papers that evaluate the efficacy of masks. We believe that health professionals can use this tool to find real links in the texts. By organizing the literature, qualified people can quickly find related publications that answer the task questions. This project can further be improved by abstracting the underlying data analysis techniques as described in this notebook to develop a user interface/tool that presents the related articles in a user-friendly manner.
